---
title: Personal software
---

For the applications I often use, I always think about how hard it would be to recreate them. Now, with generative models, it's a good benchmark to see how useful they are for coding in well-known domains. Even though you could do the same before, now it's more fun and you can have a working product in a few hours. And as I am working on my own coding agent, these kinds of applications are great self-contained exercises to test the agent's capabilities. 

The first application I am starting with after this site itself is a Kanban-style to-do application, which was the first project I vibe-coded when I was in Japan earlier this year. It's a React SPA frontend with a Rust API backend that uses Axum and Diesel. If I were to do it again today, I would not use React because I feel like I am learning React more than the web platform, which is what I want for the long run. I would rather use a framework like HTMX that I can reuse across server-side languages, or something like Vue, which leans more into HTML. To be fair, most of the interesting parts of my projects are in the backend, and the frontend is usually just a thin layer to expose them.

For the backend, Rust is great for coding with generative models. The type system and the compiler are very helpful, and this is the project that first gave me the impression that a strong type system is important for generated code. In the majority of cases, when the code compiled and ran, it was correct, and when it didn't the compiler feedback loop usually led the way to a solution. If my company had its main products in Rust, I could see using it for this type of CRUD backend, but otherwise, I would prefer another statically typed backend language like Kotlin or Go. I can see rewriting this to other languages in the future as a test of different coding agents, but for now it works and you can see the code at [mvkvc/todo](https://github.com/mvkvc/todo). I look forward to doing the same for other applications I use and building up a personal ecosystem of tools.
